# Minutes for meeting 2020-06-15

**Date/Time**: 2020-06-15 09:00-10:00 CET<br/>
**Location**: ‚Ä¶<br/>
**Purpose**: ‚Ä¶<br/>

## Attendees

    @TODO: Add <sup>üìù</sup> to note taker

- Auke van Slooten @poef
- Ben Peachey @Potherca
- Michiel de Jong @michielbdejong
- Yvo Brevoort @ylebre

(Note-taker marked with üìù)

## Agenda

- Weekly status update
- Development
  - Decide on rules for MR review/approval/merge
  - Where do we want to leave action points? (meeting notes seems impractical)
- Documentation / Marketing / Branding items
  - Briefly discuss rational behind the code license choice (so it can be documented)
  - Project identity / Branding / Logo / Naming / etc.
  - Publishing documentation / Github Pages / URL paths vs. sub-domains preference, etc.

## Minutes

    @TODO: Add notes once meeting has been held

## Actions and Agreements

1. ‚Ä¶

## Other Notes & Information

    @TODO: Remove if empty

‚Ä¶